being an interrogator special agent with
the US Secret Service I'm trained in the
art of reading people's body language
verbal cues I mean even written
statements so you can figure out who's
full of BS and who isn't no so one of
the things I would see a lot of guilty
people do is Evie pom porus former US
Secret Service special agent who
protected presidents worked undercover
and trained in the art of lie detection
human behavior and cognitive influence
she's now on a mission to help us all
benefit from the lessons she's learned
along the way eie I want to go into all
of the techniques the life lessons the
wisdom so what are the co components of
how to get someone to do what you want
everybody's motivated by something
different what you want to understand is
that person's motivational mindset but
the biggest mistake people make is they
what about when your boss or your
colleague isn't listening to you what
should you do so it's called par
Linguistics everyone's so focused on
what they say they don't think about the
tone pitch of the voice but there are
simple things you can do to make sure
people hear you first you spent 12 years
around people like Bill Clinton and
Barack Obama did you learn anything
about lead ship they're not driven by
emotion and the problem majority people
have is they're bring their feelings
into it you don't want to be an
emotional decision maker it never goes
well pull back and be
objective Evie when you think back of
your secret service experience was there
ever a day when you thought the
president's life was at risk do you know
I don't think I ever talked about it but
and then what was the scariest moment of
your career there was another undercover
case all these things are escalating
back any second he's going to kill my
partner and pull my gun out
that stayed with
me congratulations dcio gang we've made
some progress 63% of you that listen to
this podcast regularly don't subscribe
which is down from
69% our goal is 50% so if you've ever
liked any of the videos we've posted if
you like this channel can you do me a
quick favor and hit the Subscribe button
it helps this channel more than you know
and the bigger the channel gets as
you've seen the bigger the guests get
thank you and enjoy this
[Music]
episode Evie if someone's just clicked
onto this podcast to listen because they
thought the title was interesting or the
thumbnail was interesting with the
understanding that we're going to talk
about the work you're doing in this
season of your life and who you're doing
it
for can you tell me exactly why they
should stay and listen to this
conversation I think for each person
it's different but why should you listen
listen at think cor we're always trying
to become something better I wrote my
book becoming bulletproof and I think
the essence of that was I'm trying to
become more than
and how about this the day you think you
know everything is the day you become
obsolete I live by that because I am
never at my Peak I am always becoming
more so if you're looking to become more
and you don't know what that is
exactly then listen all of this
information we're going to talk about
today um the techniques the things
you've learned the life lessons the
wisdom where is it come
from what is your if I looked at your CV
what would I see I probably honestly
came from probably comes from growing up
in New York daughter of immigrants I
think that there's one aspect there but
I TR think I truly think the majority is
when I became a New York City police
officer and then I went to the US Secret
Service and I went in young I was like
22 23 and so while everyone's out at
that age partying doing whatever I went
into this this field and I was around a
lot a lot of other Elite performers and
thinkers and I learned so much training
how humbles you the the job humbles you
and then also working in the White House
being around other top performers top
thinkers that really kind of not kind of
I mean that really I grew up there I
grew up in the white house I grew up in
the US Secret Service that's how I grew
up so I think that those things help
shape me and mold me not just training
but also the people I was around I
learned a lot made many mistakes but I
had really good I don't want to say Role
Models because I don't like that word I
don't look at anybody and say I want to
be that no I want to be me but I can
look at other people and learn and INSP
get inspired from them and see what they
do so I had those examples that guided
me so I think that's the majority of
where that comes from and then the
practicing of it flexing that muscle
it's like a workout you have to keep
doing that and being honest with
yourself you Secret Service nobody wants
to hear excuses nobody cares how you
feel I don't mean it in a mean way but
they're like we have a job to do what is
the Secret Service I really want to zoom
in on your career experience to
understand
um how the wisdom you have was derived
from different sort of seasons of your
um experience so a lot of us have heard
this term secret service agent but in
but in reality if I look at the span of
your career what did that
involve
specifically okay so Secret Service the
United States Secret Service was
actually the uh one of the oldest
federal law enforcement train agencies
in the US so they do two things the one
thing that they do is they protect the
president everybody sees it right
everyone's like oh that's Secret Service
that's all they do
No in fact even that unit of of people
that you see around the president it's
very hard even to get in there you don't
you don't automatically go and even if
you want to go doesn't mean you're going
to get it so you do protection president
former presidents vice president first
ladies even foreign heads of state so
when the prime minister of the UK comes
to the US he gets protection because we
don't want him getting assassinated in
the US so all these foreign heads of
state so you're you're protecting tons
of people and it doesn't matter who it
is you're the job is I die for you
period so that's one aspect of it so
there's a very selfless aspect of that
which goes against all your intuition
right because even in law enforcement as
a cop or police officer they teach you
hey if you're getting shot at you make
yourself small take cover then engage Us
Secret services that all goes out the
window it's no you're getting shot at
you jump in front and then make yourself
big even bigger to make sure the bullet
hits you and not the person behind you
so you have to really rewire like
something that's instinctual that's
protection the other aspect of it is
investigations they work
investigations fraud a lot of fraud a
lot of complex crimes and today fraud is
global so you'll be investigating
somebody in Russia I remember there was
one guy in Russia who's committing fraud
here in the US um he was going into bank
bank accounts of these
very wealthy people so the US Secret
Service and home Homeland and CBP
Customs border patrol everybody got
together because like we have to get
this guy so they figure out okay he's in
Russia so the US goes to Russia says Hey
Russia uh can you help us get this guy
can you know can you send him over and
so Russia of course is like no we're not
going to do it to be fair we wouldn't do
it for Russia either so it goes both
ways so then everyone had to get created
how do we get this guy so they're like
all right we're going to put a plan
together to lure him into another
country a neutral country so this plan
goes into place it's not my case and
it's probably Friday night I hear my
boss calling from across the way he's
like hey pom purus yes sir he's like
what are you doing tomorrow I looked at
him I'm like why don't you tell me what
I'm doing tomorrow he said can you go to
the Dr Dominican Republic I said sure
what do you need he's like you need to
do undercover okay what am I doing he's
like we've got this guy in Russia we're
luring luring him over from Russia to
the Dr we want to get him and bring him
to the US you're going to go with your
boyfriend I'm like who's my boyfriend
he's a detective from the L NYPD I think
he was I can't remember what great he
was you're going to be his girlfriend
you're going to give him legitimacy you
guys are going to convince this Russian
to come to the US I'm like where are we
going to do this he's like at a resort I
said Resort I'm like what do I have to
do he's like just make him look legit
you mean hang out by the pool all day
and just drink peina coladas he said yes
as long as they're virgin I said no
problem MH and so that's what we did we
spent I don't know how many days at this
Resort me and my boyfriend who was like
20 years older than me maybe 30 and
dinners with the Russian talking to him
and what we tried to motivate him by is
greed come to America we'll sneak you in
and you'll make a ton of money and
because we knew what his motivator was
more money so he's thinking about it
he's thinking about it we're having a
little bit of hard time with them then
finally it's the day before we're
supposed to leave on our private jet
which is customs border
Patrol and I'm talking to my boyfriend's
detective I'm like you think he'll show
he's like I don't know so we're waiting
that morning it's like 5 minutes to 9:
we're about to leave the
resort and we're like he's not going to
show 3 minutes before 9: he rolls up
he's like I'm in so we board our plane
it's our private jet it's Customs border
patrol everyone's undercover we get on
there's like alcohol I don't drink
there's food he gets on the Russian we
fly from the Dominican Republic to Miami
we land in Miami do a refuel it's all
agents they're watching but they're all
you know reading newspapers everyone's
undercover we get back on the jet we fly
to New York and then we land in Long
Island in a very in a remote area
there's a limo there our limo my
boyfriend's limo with I I don't drink
again I it's like Jack Daniels Jack
Daniels Blue Label which is like the
fancy I guess a liquor we get in we get
into the limo and then we drive so now
we got them in the US we got them the
was to bring him to Brooklyn to the
Brooklyn
Bridge and the takedown was I take a
photo of my boyfriend and the Russian by
the Brooklyn Bridge wearing their
Russian hats cuz he brought Russian hats
and that was my clear take us down it's
safe and so I put the photo up the
bridges in the back my boyfriend's like
welcome to America we're going to commit
all this fraud we're going to steal all
this money the Russians super happy
click everybody comes in we're all in
cuffs that's an example of a case if I
back up there you said that what he
wanted was more money when when you're
trying to understand how to get someone
to do what you want to
do what are the sort of core components
of that I spoke to um Andrew Bustamante
who's the former CIA agent and he's he
said he's spent a lot of time undercover
doing very similar work going to foreign
countries getting people to like him to
trust him and then to give him something
and one of the things he said to me is
you need to understand their ideology he
says of all the things that make someone
do something is understanding their
ideology which is kind of what you're
describing there I think there's
ideology and the other thing he said
this framework rice reward ideology
coercion and ego and what you described
I guess is the reward that that Russian
guy wanted when you're thinking about
how to get someone to do what you want
what's the what's the kind of framework
where' you where did you default to and
I'm and here I'm thinking about business
I'm thinking about sales I'm thinking
about all forms of persuasion because
that's essentially what you had to do
you had to get this total stranger
sounds like a stranger onto a private J
to come with you to America
so I'm going to shut up because I need
to understand what you want the biggest
mistake people make is they talk a
lot Steph if I'm doing all the talking
and you're doing all the listening right
you're learning everything about me
you're learning about what I care about
my values my belief systems you're
getting a good read on me and I'm
learning nothing about you there's a
myth that people think if I do most of
the talking I have control it's garbage
you have the power because you've got me
now now so what I will tell you is and I
know of Andy what you want to understand
is that person's motivational mindset
what are you motivated by so that is
your value and belief system everybody's
motivated by something different but I
have to hear you and pay attention to
you to understand what that is
everybody's purpose is different the
example I gave you with a Russian he's
motivated by money how did you figure
that out was there a certain question or
was it just one his action showed it cuz
he wants money and then in talking to
him he had a I believe he had a wife
home he had a kid home he grew up a
certain way so you just listen here have
a drink talk to me let me know if you
give people enough space they will
reveal themselves to you but we're so
busy talking we're so busy making noise
because we think everybody needs to hear
me I'm identity everybody needs to know
me me me me and you know what nobody
cares is there something in that as well
where when you listen to someone they
like you more yeah they like you more
because everybody loves to talk about
themselves because everybody wants to
feel heard now I'll tell you this though
I'm going to push back on the little bit
of the like thing because even in
business people like I need people to
like me I need people to like me that is
a Trek for disaster because now you're
focused on not what your goal
is but I need to make somebody like me
those are two different animals if my
goal is to do a deal with
you then I'm going to focus on what do I
need to get this deal done if my goal is
to get you to like me which is much more
complex and much more confusing and also
it's going to mess me up in trying to
figure that out I say
this don't focus on making people like
you because you can do everything right
and people may still just not like you
instead focus on how about I'm going to
be competent in what I do when I say I'm
going to do something I follow through
when I say I can do something I actually
can do it when I say I'm going to be
there at 9: I'm there at 8:55 in the US
Secret Service we had a saying if you're
on time you're
late so I show you that I'm competent
when you see that are you going to like
me for that yes you are I'll respect you
now there's warmth warmth is the other
element here warmth is I show you
respect so instead of me trying to get
you to like me how about I just show you
respect what does that look like in
reality showing some more respect is
that again the time keeping I'm
listening to you I show up on time I
follow through with what I say I'm going
to do I'm also open and approachable I'm
also non-judgmental that's a big thing
everybody is kind of like throwing their
weight around let me tell you what I
think let me tell you what I think
nobody needs to know what you think it
doesn't matter if you're really trying
to build a connection with a person then
build it and let them tell you what they
think because now I see the world
through your lens not mine I always say
when especially I do a lot of Keynotes
and training for businesses you don't
matter they matter what do they want
what do they need what's important to
them let them them tell you and then
when they tell you instead of trying to
guess how to enter a conversation
because you're coming into the blind but
what do I do I shut up I listen I let
you reveal to me what matters to you
what your values are and then I come in
more intelligently into the conversation
and I speak to you you have to know your
audience but you don't know your
audience if you're doing all the Talking
everybody's motivated by something
different if you take my motivational
Factor growing up I was never motivated
by money my russan was readed that's
fair but I wasn't whenever I got a job I
never looked at the pay NYPD I had no
idea what my salary was um when I went
to the US Secret Service I never once
asked them what's the pay because I
wasn't motivated by that I was motivated
by the mission by the purpose but people
will show you that so the recruiter that
talked to me probably realized this
woman never once asked me what her
salary is going to be she's not
motivated by that those are little
things that people show you
people will show you what they care
about if we just hold back stay silent
ask good questions and you know what
we're genuinely curious I genuinely want
to get to know you I genuinely want to
understand you I don't genuinely want to
tell you all about me that's different
and the one factor that's really
important is not having judgment being
non-judgmental when you show judgment to
another person they're going to filter
what they say they're going to shut down
they're going to hold back because
nobody likes to be judged I would
interview in the polygraph room people
who committed really horrible crimes
crimes against children a lot of people
would say to me how can you sit there
and listen to it and not you know tell
them what you thought or not like ream
them out I was like because my goal was
to get information see where there other
victims how did they do it I want to
know what they did so that I can make
sure that this doesn't happen happen
again and that I do maybe get
information so I can get a conviction
and then I also want to know if there
are other victims out there my goal is
not to check somebody and put him in his
place or her and tell them what I think
of them those are two different things
also in the room my goal was not to get
them to like me my goal was to get them
to feel heard to feel respected for me
to be professional and I think we bring
the wrong terms because it's confusing
if I want you to like me too think of it
this way then I'm going to think I have
to be nice to him I have to be his
friend and when you become you're in
business you can be warm but when you
start becoming people's friends that's
when the lines get blurred and we get
confused in fact there's research done
by Susan Fisk and Chris Malone and they
say be warm to people be open and
approachable but if you're overly nice
overly kind overly polite that's when
you get rolled you want to find that
beautiful balance where I'm a
professional I'm warm I'm not judgmental
come talk to me tell me but but at the
same time I maintain my authority I
maintain my
boundaries what about when someone
compromises your boundaries or
disrespects you how do you react to that
because I think a I have a lot of um
leaders around me in my various
businesses and I see sometimes that some
leaders struggle with confrontation they
struggle with you know team member might
disrespect them in some way or might
disre might not deliver work to the
right standard and they might struggle
with like pulling that person in knowing
how to do that and how to address that
situation and the avoidance of that
conflict obviously just causes a bigger
future problem because you're setting a
new you're setting a new boundary right
you've let
someone jeopardize or um cross a line
and if you don't I'm assuming that if in
the moment you don't address that
they're going to cross it again in the
future this is really about like
conflict resolution interpersonal
conflict resolution and when you've been
disrespected how do you deal with that
so the first I'm going to do is I'm
going to flip it back what have you done
to let people think that they can do
that to you that's the first thing I'm
going to say what standards have you
created or what things have you set up
to let people think I don't have to
deliver on time I can't be disrespectful
I can't show up late for work that's the
first thing I'm going to say so I would
Haz it a guess that I did I in the past
set a standard for this right in some
way that I showed up in the past that's
the first thing I'm going to do what is
there something I have done to create an
environment where a person thinks that
it is okay to do these things that's f
first why do you go to I because I'm the
one who sets the tone for I I I I just
interviewed a chief of station former
Chief of station John franie he's former
CIA and he managed a lot of people and a
very strong a lot of strong
personalities because you got officers
and all these different people and he
said to me you know what I learned he
said it is easier to be more have
boundaries and be a little bit more
sturdy and more authoritative in the
beginning and then pull back than to be
everybody's friend and then try to put
those boundaries in place the ladder
doesn't work he's like you do the first
you let people know what you expect of
them and then you can pull back a little
bit but you always have to tow that line
so that's what I'm going to say first
and he's right what tone have I set in
the environment that I'm working that
people think it's okay to do these
things that's one now let's say
sometimes I have an outlier I have a
person who does these things as soon as
it happens you have to address
it what people do is they don't address
things they let it go it's small and
then it happens again it's small then
again and then we become resentful we
become pissed why does this person keep
doing it why don't they self-correct
again it goes back to me why haven't I
addressed it people are afraid of
conflict conflict can be done in a great
way you have to think of conflict as
think of it as like I'm competing I'm I
can speak to you not raise my voice not
make it ugly and debate something with
you in the in the the White House next
to the Oval Office was the cabinet room
the cabinet room is where the president
would sit with all his heads you know
Secretary of Treasury Secretary of
Homeland Security and they would discuss
and
debate policies laws and they would
compete one person would say I don't
like this idea this is why another
person would say well this idea doesn't
work this is why you have to be
comfortable in doing that most people
are not they don't understand that you
can sit somebody down and say Hey you
know this happened can you tell me about
that I had someone who worked for me and
she had made a mistake on something and
so it was a pretty big mistake so I I
called her up and I said hey you know
what this and this happened you know
talk me through it and I let her explain
and you know she said you know I'm sorry
this and that uh there's a reason why
but the one thing I did I said because I
wanted to rectify it because I didn't
want it happen again I was like is there
anything I can do to help make your job
better so you can be more successful at
what you
do because I want to hear is there
something I'm doing or not doing that's
impacting her decision making or the way
she sees things so it's a twofold but
you also to when it comes to respect and
this is a whole separate thing you
brought up with the respect part just
make sure people are truly disrespecting
you and that's not your ego that feels
disrespected cuz sometimes people can't
take somebody pushing back and if my
goal is to make a great product
or business deal or transaction then
everything we do should be in
furtherance of
that but what happens is Stephen people
are so afraid of hurting other people's
feelings or stepping on other people's
toes nobody says something and that's
worse it's sometimes difficult to know
the difference between whether this is a
violation of my boundaries or this is my
ego because you know I think of much of
the reason why people won't confront
something in the moment is because they
start double guess whether they're in
the right they're in the wrong this is
acceptable this is unacceptable behavior
and that kind of mental debate of um is
that actually acceptable that they treat
me like this or that they did this or am
I just being triggered because you know
of some kind of emotional issue that I
have and that kind of conversation often
results in them taking no action which
means they tolerate that behavior
whether they should or shouldn't and
then it becomes the norm you know it's
interesting so I'm a very um like a I'm
quick too to jump and like
I don't want to say go into attack mode
but I I have it I'm Greek I group up in
New York and queens it's like it's just
on so I always have to my immediate
response is like what internally inside
voice uh I pause and I'm like hang on is
this person telling me something or
doing something that I should
hear right maybe they're telling I made
a mistake and they're trying to help me
make something better or is this person
crossing a boundary that I don't want
them to cross so then I will sit that
person down or have a conversation hey
can you tell me about this what were you
thinking when this happened walk me
through it but I will tell you
non-judgmental right you don't want to
show it it's I call it the poker face
just don't show it and let them talk and
just see what they're thinking most
people as they're talking to you Stephen
they will on their own realize as they
talk through it what they made wrong
what they did wrong also you you lead by
examples so sometimes I'll make a
mistake I'll miss a deadline with
someone I work with and I'll say listen
I'm sorry I was traveling I own it tell
me what I need to do to fix it and what
I have found when I do that the people I
work with when they make a mistake and
I'm like hey what happened with this you
know what eie I'm sorry I miss the
deadline I own it I'll fix it they
reflect back what I show them so I think
it also shows in the behavior and and
then there sometimes Stephen some
sometimes you'll bring somebody in that
just should not be there and then you
also have to make that hard decision
because that one person it will destroy
the fabric of the group one person can
do that because everybody else around
now watches that interaction and they're
thinking well Stephen doesn't care I was
like he's letting this guy do this so I
can do this right it's a I compare it to
like uh when I teach so as I said I'm an
agent Professor I teach College I teach
undergrad CRI criminal justice first day
class when they come in I tell them no
cell phones I was like and the reason I
have you do no cell phones is not
because I'm I want you to respect me or
this and that I was like I owe ow you an
education I owe you an education I know
some professors don't care but I tell my
students day one I give a [__] and
because I give a [__] I don't want to
see the phone in the class however I do
something else it's an influence
strategy I give them autonomy I say
however you can leave this classroom
anytime you want to check Facebook go on
Instagram I don't care you have that
autonomy but in here I want you to
respect the sanctity of the classroom
because you deserve education and I owe
it to you and I set that standard and
side note there's a video clip that I
showed day one and you're actually in it
I didn't even know who you were there's
a clip of you and some others it's a
montage of videos together talking about
social media and how it impacts you
adversely and cell phones and cell phone
addiction and all that and I actually
play that clip and can I tell you it
resonates with everybody and I have no
problems the rest of the semester but I
set that tone and I tell them if I see
the phone you're going home no hard
feelings I'm going to pause class and
I'm going to send you home and then if
somebody violates it though I do it have
you had to build up
your how would I describe it mental
fortitude um ability to be direct to
look someone in the eye to stand up
straight have you had to build that up
over time because there'll be a lot of
people who look at you and see strength
and they see confidence and they see
conviction and they'll Wonder Maybe she
was just born like that or maybe there's
something she did along the way that
grew that it's a lot of mistakes and a
lot of
discipline and it's
also the people you surround yourself
with will set that example that tone for
you if everybody around me is a mess or
everybody around me when there's a
stressful situation they fall apart and
they're chaotic I'm going to be that
even to this day Stephen I sit and I'm
very aware of who I have conversations
with whose energy I absorb whose
problems I solve I have somebody I care
about very deeply they're in a situation
with someone a relationship with someone
who is volatile chaotic they've come to
me so many times I said you need to let
go of this person I will I will they
don't but what happens is they keep
coming to me I'm having this problem and
I put them on point I'm like I told you
what to do now you have to sort that out
because now what's happening is your
stuff is coming into me and I can't have
that cuz I have to keep this steady so
sometimes even with pain in my heart
I'll have to kind of move that person a
little bit to the outer part of the
circle does not mean I don't care or
love them but it means your chaos has to
stay there because it's going to bleed
into my life you're unsteady I'm
unsteady but everybody around me it's
like a I don't want to say it's like a
calculus problem but it's kind of simple
math man look at who's around you you
are them they are you and if you don't
like what's going on with you pause and
be like who am I exposed to the most
sometimes the people we love they can be
very difficult personalities but even
with them you could say I can manage
this I don't want to cut this person out
but what do I do I just move them to the
edge of the circle a little bit more and
you have to make sure your core circle
is strong and that's something you have
to constantly reassess because sometimes
in our lives this person is good here
and then maybe 2 3 years later they're
not good anymore but what we're tied to
is that person who we knew back then
well they're not the same person now if
you have a [__] show around
you it's you because you're allowing it
to exist so think about quietly how can
I create these changes and quietly make
these changes quietly make these
boundaries because these are boundaries
internal for you it's interesting I
remember watching a video of Steve Jobs
talk about how he built his career and
he said in that video he said I built my
career by surrounding myself and finding
these truly exceptional people these a
players and the crazy thing is when you
find these a players they like working
with other a players and it propagates
but the opposite is also true right if
when you build a circle of drama they'll
invite more drama but if you I look at
my own life and I look at my companies
and it's almost this crazy sort of
process of osmosis when we have chaos
and we have inexperience and we have
drama we end up hiring and inviting more
of the same whereas when we made
those step steps to bring in experience
I'm thinking in my early my early career
experience and maturity and composure
and a certain yeah a certain
psychological maturity then that's what
we ended up bringing more of more and
more in because like-minded people
attract like-minded people and even in
the context of our own lives our Circle
will just you know the fifth person will
become the sixth person if that makes
sense yes it's like they rotate out and
it's okay you know what's interesting
too I'm wondering too because you do
this podcast and you really try to
you're warm you're open you want people
to speak to you and I wonder if people
that work with you outside of the
podcast or people that work with you in
your business see the Steven on the
podcast and they think he's so warm he's
so open he's so he's so flexible and
they confuse that Stephen with the Steph
who does business and there can be
different versions of You Stephen so you
could think of it and I do this all the
time who I am here doesn't mean I'm the
same person here so when I show up to
work I bring in maybe a little bit more
energy a little bit more directness or
when i h when I hire people I'll tell
people Hey listen because I want to be
efficient at what I do sometimes I'll be
very direct cuz I want to just get there
don't get your feelings hurt if at any
point there's something you're not sure
about please tell me but because I need
to get to there I may be just be direct
so if you think it's going to be hard
for you I'm not the person I was like
but I will always appreciate you and I'm
always here so I'll sprinkle in every
now and then hey I appreciate you thank
you for this this is great that way in
the so there's my warmth so that in
those months when I'm like hey this
email you guys wrote this is we can't
send this out this needs to be redone
and so nobody's hearing like oh I'm
stupid she thinks I'm done I did a
horrible job it's like no the email just
sucks change it and fix it so we can
move on and do better but think about
the versions you bring in cuz I'll give
you an example who I am in the classroom
is different than who I am on the
podcast is different who I am when I do
the news there are different versions of
me and we have to weigh out those so if
you're going into a business meeting or
you're dealing with people who look to
you as a
supervisor a little bit of a different
Steph so they feel it's not what you say
to people Stephen it's how they feel
around you and if they feel like he's
not taking any of this they're going to
know it it's the essence of who we are
it's our ethos is a Greek word your your
way of being we show we show people in
the context of whatever environment
we're in the version that we want them
to see so that we can get the results
that we want you spent much of your time
around great leaders if I think about
you know you were working for about
almost 12 years around people like Bill
Clinton and Barack Obama and Michelle
Obama did you learn anything about
leadership from those individuals from
observing them and seeing how they
conducted themselves and how they
communicated you know in the UK we see
someone like Barack Obama is a really
incredible leader for many reasons but I
think one of the real standout reasons
is his ability to communicate in a
certain way which galvanizes people and
we haven't really seen I mean one could
actually argue that Trump has his own
masterful communication skills it's very
different but it seems to work you know
did you learn anything from being around
these presidents about leadership and
communication so you learn you learn
something from all of them to be
president of the United States whoever
you are I mean that's a feat and of
itself so they're all they all have
something so it's interesting the the
one thing I learned is
um resilience you'll be next to the
president and this was every president a
forers all of them I stood next to and
you're standing next to them and they're
about to go on stage or in a big meeting
or they're talking to someone and you've
got the news on and there's some
political pundit on the news or channel
talking about how stupid they are he's a
dummy he's this he's that just shading
them and he looks at
it yeah gets his stuff together gets his
speech together gets on stage and
delivers when the majority of the public
would sit there oh my God I'm
disrespected I'm this how can they say
that nothing that was amazing to me so
not only did the US Secret Service make
me resilient but to see somebody just
take such heat or hear such horrible
things said about them on a consistent
basis on such public platforms and you
have the ability to wake up walk outside
the White House your head up get in your
limo Go on stage go do this press
conference and you're like it's just
going to happen there's no there's no
school for that and so because I was
around these these these these
personalities I'm like yeah well if he
can do it I can do it who was the most
impressive I have to tell you they all
were there was no one that wasn't like
they all had their their gift you know
and even Trump you brought up Trump
before I think what people like about
him he's just direct he's very direct
and he just lands it he says what he
says and he doesn't care there's a
there's something and I'm Switzerland
because in the US Secret Service we
actually weren't even allowed to talk
about if we voted for someone we were
very
apolitical um and I've always stayed
that way but from an objective
standpoint people just like the fact
that he just says it and he doesn't
care and sometimes I think people envy
that did you did you see how they made
their decisions did you ever observe
them making tough decisions yes all the
time you would be behind closed door
meetings you would hear their ability
give me an example of this I'm
interested you know when the stakes are
that high because a lot of us on a
day-to-day basis are making fairly
inconsequential decisions especially in
the context of running the most powerful
nation in the world so I'm interested
when the stakes are that high when
you've got to get Osama Bin Laden in a
compound in Pakistan or you know there's
a there's a terrorist attack how these
individuals make decisions they're not
driven by emotion they're very rational
based decisions I weigh the pros I weigh
the cons I look at the facts so you very
RAR if ever and I could probably say
I've never heard a US president yell
ever I've never heard a US president
lose his himself you know when you hear
them debate or talk about things it's a
debate I can look at you you can look at
me I be like Stephen I don't think that
this is right and you'd say EV well why
isn't this right if we do it this way
this way this way this is going to
happen yeah but Stephen if you do it
like that and what if this happens and
these guys die well I don't see it like
that well Sor I see it this way it's
like we're going to have to figure it
out but you're also with people who have
the ability to sit and withstand their
their feelings are not so fragile their
ego Not So Soft that you can actually
have this debate and that's important
for you to have in your circle can you
have these debates with people I would
call them competing there's a two great
researchers in the UK Dr Lawrence and
Emily Allison and they architect people
as animals and one of the things I talk
about is someone who's in control and
setting the agenda is someone who's
lying I'm a liying and so sometimes we
have to bring a little bit more line in
with us or somebody who's competing is
somebody who's capable of kind of
debating with you but it doesn't have to
be ugly I don't have to raise my voice
or get in your face to break something
down I can sit there and be rational the
problem the majority people have is
they're so invested and emotional they
bring their feelings hurt their feelings
into it even something you just brought
up Trump and you had like a little bit
of a look like Trump because everyone's
so emotional when they hear that name
pull back and be objective it's like let
me look at this from a factual
standpoint I'm going to lay this out I'm
going to lay this out I let let let this
lay out when you can make decisions
based on facts and rationality theem go
out the window you don't want to be an
emotional decision maker it never goes
well because you're not thinking clearly
you're like just going with the wave and
it's those moments when you say
something you shouldn't say then
afterward you regret it why did that
person get me to say that I went in with
this intention I got of got pulled in
this direction this person got me to say
that no it's always on you cuz you're
the governor of you the first time you
got exposed to a president um and you
spent time around a a president were
there any things that surprised you any
things that before then you had a sort
of Mis sort of ideas of what they were
like and how they behaved that you
realize suddenly were like popular
misconceptions that most people believe
about presidents and so on I don't know
if this is a misconception but my first
time they call it standing post um it
was for President George W bush he's in
office I'm standing post for him
somewhere what does that mean oh
standing post is when you're new you
don't get into like the close close
circle of the president it's Evie here's
the door and the president's going to
walk through this door in like eight
hours from now we're going to sweep it
check for bombs and everything and your
job is to stand watch the store for
eight hours nobody comes through right
that's it that's called post standing
you secure the perimeter it's mundane
right but you do it it's part of the job
especially when you start so I have my
one of my first post standing things I'm
standing by the door and the head agent
the senior agent's coming around
checking on us hey you okay you okay you
need anything it's briefing us
and then one agent comes and he's like
you're new right I'm like yeah well I'm
sort of new I mean I had start under
Clinton but Bush was my real I don't
know what but my real hardcore
assignment and he's like where's your
phone I said it's here sir he's like is
that thing off or on silent I said yeah
he's like don't let Bush hear your phone
go off and I'm like what do you mean
he's like if he hears your phone go off
you're going home he's like he doesn't
want to hear phones we want like a
respectable environment a quiet quiet
environment that thing goes off you're
gone he sends people home and I was like
what why would he get so upset with the
phone I didn't quite understand it now I
understand it because if everybody's
doing this and distracted nobody's Focus
there's things going on it's the energy
the vibration he was trying to be a
leader inste boundaries for the
environment he wanted everybody present
everybody's focused nobody's on their
phones no
shenanigans that really stuck with me
and you better make sure I took that
thing out put it all the way down I was
like the president of the United States
is not sending me home and they're like
he does it so though that's something
like I always remembered and it's it's a
boundary and it's just something he
imposed throughout the environment I
remember thinking wow the president of
the United States actually sits and I
don't want to say controls something so
minute but something so
small can impact or create this ripple
effect of the environment that he is
trying to
cultivate why did you get that job
because when I was reading through the
numbers around how many people sort of
apply to do the initial training and
then how many people ultimately get to
be that that close to these major issues
it seems like very few people get there
could you quantify that for me how many
people dropped out during training how
many people passed and how many people
how like rare is it to get to the
position that you got to so they spend
like tens of thousands of dollars maybe
even 100 100K by the time you get hired
on you so to understand how they select
you once you get selected like you've
gone through a rigorous process so for
example I started in the NYPD when I
went in it was, 1500 of us and people
would just quit left and right and they
wanted you to quit when I went to the US
Secret Service Academy at that point it
was like 54 of us but you were hand
selected so one you apply and I think
they only take 1% of all applications
that they get which is like it's easier
to get into Harvard than and it isn't
get into the service so out of all the
applications they only they only select
1% to even look at then they decide okay
I'm going to put this person through the
process then they make you fill in all
this paperwork Stephen I can't even tell
you the amount of weeks it took me write
essays how you're going to handle
problems hey they'll give you problem
scenarios uh and they'll say you have
this problem how would you handle this
and they'll give you like you've been
here what would you do here and they
have you write out essays and break down
what you would do then your paperwork so
they take your paperwork they go through
all that stuff then they do background
checks on you criminal checks background
checks they talk to all your neighbors
um when I was in the USC when I was
applying I had studied overseas when I
was in college and one of the semesters
I did abroad was in Italy they sent an
agent to Italy to speak to my college
professor in Rome to ask him what kind
of student I was so they do such an
invasive look into you you do polygraph
you take a written test it's called The
Tea exam I think they've changed it but
it was like in the US it's like they
call it the SATs it was the SATs on
steroids that thing was so hard I
thought for sure I failed it I was like
there's no way I passed this thing I
squeak through that and there's all
these things so by the time you get
offered they give you it's a conditional
offer of employment Evie you've passed
everything so we're going to let you try
to go to training and then if you pass
that then you go on probation for like I
think it's 3 years and then you're good
then you're truly in but they by the
time you get to this process where
you're actually going to training
because they've dumped so much money in
you they want you're at that point where
you're typically going to get through it
because they don't want you to quit
because they've dropped a lot of money
on you so at that point they've really
invested in you because they believe
that you can meet the standards and be
part of a culture that they want so it
it is hard but they do kick people out
it happens all the time what is it about
you then if you reflect in hindsight now
and go the reason I got through all of
that is because I
am I didn't know any
better I didn't know any better not to
apply I didn't know any better to know
that it's 98% men I didn't know any
better to think that I couldn't do it my
n my my naiveness as a young woman or
girl that's what help me get through
that job I didn't think about it I was
like why not what were they looking for
they look for a lot of different things
I will tell you unequivocally they look
for trustworthiness if you line your
stuff and they catch you which later on
I became one of their polygraph
examiners and my job became I became the
person to see if you were trustworthy if
you had lied to us I was like the last
layer of Defense um that was a big thing
Integrity is a big thing cuz their
mindset was if you can lie about your
application form or something that
happened to you when you're 1920 or
something dumb you did then you're going
to lie to us about anything cuz it's
like if you can't own up to your stuff
you're going to make mistakes here and
we can't trust you so Integrity is a
massive thing the other thing that
really like they call it bqas but better
qualified applicants that's what you get
when they don't want you like hey we
have better qualified applicants that
competitive
wise drugs was a big thing people using
like so drugs played a big role when
people had a lot of usage that would be
or when I got on it was like barely
nothing um that would be a quick thing
to get you disqualified because
obviously we work crime criminal cases
so if I'm working a counterfeit case
criminal criminals don't really stay in
one lane they do counterfeit money and
they do drugs and they do other things
so they have to know that you can work
these cases and they don't have to worry
about you you said you were working in
as an interrogator I read that you
traveled the world for roughly about
eight years for the Secret Service doing
um polygraph tests and conducting
interrogations as a polygraph examiner
you're trying to figure out if people
are lying you've got a machine in front
of you right that's telling you giving
you a bunch of readings and data on
what's going on physiologically inside
their body but then also you know in
interrogations but as a polygraph
examiner you you you're looking at them
and you must have a bit of a sort of
hunch based on like pattern recognition
when you're looking at their body and
how they're behaving do you think you
can predict or do you think you can now
tell if someone's lying to you or if
they're being dishonest it happens a lot
when you speak to people you can I guess
you can look at it this way you can
figure out who's full of BS and who
isn't no one you feel
it I think your intuition is a huge
thing and we we dismiss it two people
show you you create baselines on people
so if I sit and I speak to someone and
the whole time they're speaking like
when you talk Stephen most of your your
hands are usually here you go on the
iPad you do this that's your Baseline
right you do a lock ey contact I've got
Stephen right now let's say I ask you
later a question and maybe it's a
question you don't like right I ask you
like tell me about your employees at
work or tell me about the most difficult
employee you had and how did you deal
with it and it's something maybe that
affects you you don't want to talk about
it you don't want to be honest with me
you might be like ah you know I and you
look down I'm like well you know I'll
see a shift this whole time I'm talking
to Stephen he's locked in with me he's
got a certain posture I ask him this
question he just showed me something
different why that's it why and then now
I know to be curious that when you're
done asking or answering my question I
come in with good follow-up questions CU
you're showing me something is happening
here what most people don't do Stephen
is they see something it registers and
they let it go they don't follow up to
with another question and then another
question and then another question
question you don't want to be nosy but
you want to be curious who's the
greatest liar you ever
met can you recall an instance of
meeting someone who was just a really
great liar I had this one guy he was
doing it wasn't a big scam but he was
doing ATM fraud so you know how you go
to the ATMs and you you you go you put
in your card you take out money so he
was going on to the ATMs and he would
put us on a skimming device this is a
very I don't want but a very primitive
way to stealy
so he would put on his own skimmer on
the ATM so when you swipe your card
you're swiping it on his skimmer so it
captures all the info so this guy was
just kind of like very low-level basic
criminal he's going around to all the
ATMs in Brooklyn and he's doing this
skimming device so on the ATMs they take
photos of you so I've got a photo of
this guy I've got him he's got his hat
on I think it was like a New York Knicks
hat at the time he's got his hat on I've
got his full frontal we found the guy we
matched the prince to the prince on the
ATM boom I've got my guy got my photo
this easy day I put him in the interview
room I sit him down hey you know I want
to talk to you about this first I do
like a a rapport building what's your
name where you from talk to me's super
nice super nice guy yes ma'am okay ma'am
you know and he was from another country
I remember so we're talking he's looking
to me yes and he's very very um wants to
help me yes I want to help you and I'm
so you know yes of course like very
Cooperative overly Cooperative so that's
my red flag I'm this guy's trying too
hard and uh sir I want to ask you about
this ATM scam oh no I don't know
anything I don't know anything I'm like
no how about here and I just start
revealing a couple of things and I've
got my photo in my background I'm like
I'm going to bust out this photo this
guy's going to be like yep that's me
sorry so as I'm doing this I'm hitting a
wall no no no I'm sorry Mom I wish I
could help you no no no so I got the
photo of the guy do you know he showed
up to my interview wearing the same hat
M and I'm thinking I'm locked I'm tight
pull out the phot phot and I'm like oh
yeah then what's this put it down on the
table he looks at
it oh yeah that's me it looks like me
but yeah wow I could see no it's not
me it was him I got he me nothing
nothing he I will never forget him just
great liar most people waver this and
that not this guy he was locked tight he
suck to that story never gave a
confession thankfully we had enough to
charge him I it was ATM fraud
but not looked at me I'm sorry and you
know one one of the things people would
do doesn't doesn't mean people are
always lying when they do this but one
of the things I would see a lot of
guilty people do and he did this a lot I
swear to God I swear to God God is my
witness God knows that's not me and so
we would call it divine intervention
whenever you'd hear somebody do that you
knew it's like okay there's a problem
cuz it's kind of like you're saying why
do you need God to come in to vouch for
you or sometimes we actually have people
com in with Bibles or rosary beads
whenever you saw that in the waiting
room that person coming in I was like I
they'd be like don't even poly them they
did
it cuz they're trying so hard to connect
to that I'm a religious person I would
never do these things and that those
were little red flags of course I would
do my interview but in my back of my
head I'm like he probably did it what
about other things like um you're very
good at keeping eye contact yes is there
such a thing as too much eye contact
it depends on the person but I think you
also need to be you so I make eye
contact here's the other thing when I
make eye contact with you I show you one
I'm confident in myself I also show you
I deserve to make eye contact with you
that I am relevant and I don't need to
look away or hide because I deserve to
be here and I deserve to be having a
conversation with
you right and that I matter that's one
thing and I also convey Authority and
confidence you don't have to say
anything to people you show them I look
at you I'm comfortable to look at you
but I can also show you warmth right I
can connect with you and engage with you
and be present and listen to you the
other thing eye contact does it also
sends the message to you that you matter
to me that I'm here and that I am
present with you and that I listening to
you that I see you and that I want to
try to understand you so eye contact is
wonderful because it does two things and
make makes you real feel relevant and it
makes me relevant also that I'm relevant
enough to sit here and look at you when
I speak and it's another way to convey
my authority without having to tell you
hey you know what I'm in charge I don't
need to tell you I show you what about
um body language you know because I'm
thinking about people that I know that
are particularly low in self-esteem and
they struggle with eye contact but then
also sometimes they it's it's almost
like they make themselves smaller in
their in their body language and stuff
like that and I was just thinking
like I I guess what I'm thinking here is
can I trick myself can I trick myself
and other people into thinking I'm
confident if I'm not is you know because
there's all this stuff about like the
Superman posture where you can kind of
make yourself bigger and look in
people's eyes but when I reflect on my
early years when I was least confident
for some reason I
couldn't get anyone I was pursuing so I
remember there was these five girls that
I over the over the course of about
since I was from 14 to I'd say 23 that I
was really into all five of them weren't
interested in me that we would like we'd
get a little bit far down the line so
there was like a little bit of sort of
initial um interest but then I would
always lose them and I never knew why I
never knew why but in but then it
changed at about 24 and it doesn't
correlate to like money or success
necessarily it correlates to my opinion
of myself and it was was almost like
magic when I looked back and I thought
[__] hell like I got rejected over
and over and over again and when I got
to the point that I actually believed
that I was good enough even though I
read all the books I read up all the
pickup Artistry books I read the game I
read all of these books I had the tips
tactics and tricks to fake it but I but
it wasn't until I genuinely believed
that I was high value that I had real
success with the opposite sex and so it
left me with this feeling that you can
read the tips the tricks the eye contact
the body language but maybe none of it
works because there's a thousand other
non-verbal micro Expressions that are
communicating your low value you don't
believe in yourself you're not worthy
that overpower that that we can't really
control and the reason it changed at 24
25 26 27 is because I genuinely felt
like I was good enough for them like so
you know this is why I reflect on this
idea of like I know people would click
podcasts like this because they want the
the tips the tricks they want to get
from a to Zed in 3 seconds no they want
to get they want to get from low
confident low self-esteem all that to at
the alar with a king and they want to do
it they want to know how to do it in the
space of this conversation so that they
can end this conversation and walk down
the aisle tomorrow with their prince
charming that's what people want they
want to solve complex things with short
Simple Solutions doesn't exist I know
this B because I know that if I title
this like if you title a podcast six
pack abs in s minutes people are going
to but if you titled it six pack abs in
three years of work in diet restriction
[__] no one's going to click you know
and it's the same thing for for here and
life and I'm often wondering like how
how does someone change the core of
themselves whether it's as a as a leader
a manager in a relationship that very
core of you because in my life it was
actually just this like long grueling
process of building myself it was at the
like retiring from
caring so much
about actually getting any of these
people and just building up this real
internal Fortress and then everything
else took care the body language the eye
contact the way I walk into a room it
all took care of
itself and you know but it doesn't sell
books that like there's no one's going
to buy that book you know what though it
is all the little things we do that help
us get there there's no magic thing
that's why you're like it took me time
and what it was is all the little things
along the lines that that that came it's
there's no magic thing people sometimes
come to me and they're like every what's
the secret and I tell them there's no
secret the change that you want in your
life it's all the little things that you
do it's like think of it like compound
interest right I do this and then I add
this layer and then this layer and then
this layer and then this layer it's like
the sheets of paper you put one sheet
it's light two sheets are light three
sheets but you put a thousand sheets now
you've got weight that's how we are
we're layers and we have to add to to
those layers there's no quick thing you
know when you know you're going to get
there when you're Sovereign when you
feel like I don't need anybody it's
wonderful to have human beings around me
and I think connection is it's it's it's
wonderful but if your goal is I need
someone to complete me you're done and I
think also it's so wild cuz I'm thinking
about my youth as you're talking about
yours when I became
Sovereign like where I'm like I'm good
enough I'm good as I am you become a
magnet I became a magnet people like
well I wanted that I want to be around
that I want to be around her everywhere
people like how do you it's like because
I believe in me but it took time to
believe in me and when you became
Sovereign yes everyone was just like but
how did your behavior change those micro
behaviors I stopped chasing things and
chasing people yeah I stopped looking
for approval I stopped trying to people
please right and I just TR I trusted
myself I also stopped taking inventory
from everybody asking everybody their
opinion and I also though but I also had
I dealt with a lot of rejection a lot of
like rejection a lot of people not
agreeing with me I gossip growing up
there was a lot I took a lot of heavy
hits and those things made me resilient
those things taught me to like not you
know to stay my course like you know and
I've shared this before but when I
became an agent or I put in for NYPD my
the community of friends and people I
had around me thought it was ridiculous
they thought it was silly I remember
after
when I started dating after I became an
agent there was one guy a friend of
mine's a good friend of mine's brother
she was trying to hook me up with him
this before my husband my husband knows
everything and uh uh so I'm like all
right you know he was a nice Greek guy
I'm Greek I'm stay I'm keeping it in the
community cuz you're supposed to um so
I'm talking to him and I'm like yeah and
I'm thinking like I went through so much
to become a special agent with the US
Secret Service and do you know he said
to me he's like so uh like when you get
married are you going to quit that job
and you know ditch this I mean like how
long are you going to do this like he
spoke about it like it was nothing like
it was trivial and I heard that and I
was just like wait what like dude you
couldn't get into the Secret Service if
like like with your like there's no like
with all your might and when he was like
said that to me and his job he owned the
diner and he owned he owned a diner food
his success was wealth and money and
some cultures including mine and the
community I was in they they measured
success with money like what I was doing
was not
successful but I had the ability to be
Sovereign enough to like not listen I
was just like no that's not my belief
system my moral compass and um I stopped
caring then I dated another guy who knew
I was in the Secret Service and I really
like this guy it was this Italian kid
and I'm thinking he's going to be so
proud of me I got in and we went on this
date and he had just broken up with
someone Stephen like he was so
uncomfortable around me why cuz I was an
agent they that was like a freak show it
was weird I think today's a little
different maybe at that time and do you
think men struggle with strong women I
think certain men do I think I think men
who are not confident in themselves if
you're steady you don't care what
somebody else is you're cheering for
them I ended up dating an agent and
marrying him so because my husband's so
steady and Sovereign in himself I could
do whatever
and he'd be like you
go you had your first child at 45 years
old I had my daughter at 40 excuse me 46
my daughter's 18 months old your
daughter gets to 18 and she's she's just
she just can't get out of bed she's lazy
she's blaming the world she's saying
listen this is this person's fault and
this person's fault and I you know I
just can't be bothered where' you start
well look if I've done a good job and my
husband and I have done a good job and
again it's it's not 100% us we should
have hopefully by that point put in
certain structures in place to prevent
that I'll give you a small example I've
never put an iPhone in front of her I
have no working television in my
house because I control what she
absorbs not the internet and I'm going
to hold on to that as long as possible
because I've seen with these the cell
phones I'm a grown ass adult and I'll
look at stuff and it impacts me and I'm
like I can't look at this or I'll
unfollow things or I'll go social I
don't want to see it I cover news I
cover crime child I cover really heinous
things and there are times where I do
the news I do the news Stephen I don't
watch it so there are little things that
I can do so up until this point 18
months it's a lot more work for me and
my family there's no social device
there's no cell phone I control that I
kind of look at it I want to know what
what's feeding her mind the way I choose
to make her food I choose what goes in
the mind I control it and a lot of
parents will come to me and I'll tell
them if you're not comfortable dropping
your kid in the middle of Time Square to
talk to
whoever then you get that thing out of
their hands because now somebody else is
putting ideas in your kid's head I have
no control over that zero and that's
powerful that's one and especially we
see it affect little girls and again I'm
a grown woman and social media impacts
me and the moment I'm like I put that
thing away that's one no TV in my house
because TV is like when I was a kid you
had cartoons Saturday morning that was
it and you had to wait for those
cartoons I mean I was like tomorrow
cartoons so this instant gratification
process that kids have that's that
that's why you here like help me get to
he fast she's never going to learn how
to work hard she's going to be lazy
she's going to lay in bed she's going to
get depressed quicker she's going to
have anxiety so I'm doing everything I
can to impact those things they're
little seeds it's little things so that
by the time she's 18 I hope in my heart
I have done my best but I also
understand I'm 50% she's 50% so as much
as I try to help navigate her she's
going to be her own person and I'm going
to have to listen understand what her
value systems are what she cares about
but her exposure to them is reg I
regulate that even the school she's
going to go to I sit there I'm already
thinking about where I'm going to put
her to school and I don't I'm like do I
want her in a public school I don't know
I don't want her being like mom I want a
Gucci belt and you know labels and all
this stuff I was like I don't want her
to think like that I want her to have a
different mindset I'm like so I'm
creating in my head how do I do that
another thing I do super small I take
her to gree with me every summer do you
know where we go in Greece in the
village Village I'm talking like
bathroom in the back hardcore like rug
in it my parents grew up in villages I
grew up in that I lived in that in the
summer June July August September I was
in the village in fact the the bathroom
was connected to the chicken coup Would
You Let Her Fly business class no the
only time I fly business class is when
somebody else is paying why because I'm
saving my
money because business class is
expensive because I work really hard and
I'm okay to sit in the back so business
class there has to be a really good
reason why I'm going to dish out that
money for business class for myself let
alone my daughter
economy
economy my poor kid right she to grow up
a m like you can keep all your stuff to
yourself you um one of the things we we
were chatting about before we started
recording was that your favorite days
are when you work out you go to the gym
why why is that so important to you why
is exercise so Central to to everything
that you do in your
mind there's I think that there's a
school of like the mind and the body are
two separate things and a lot of people
be like I'm working on my mind I listen
to podcast which is great but then they
don't work out their body and and these
things live together I learned this in
the Secret Service like these things
were they're married so if you're
depressed and you're not getting off the
sofa there's a problem your body needs
help I work with uh I train out with Don
saladino even me with all my experience
like sometimes we need somebody to push
us and accountability is a big thing so
I always tell people if you're
struggling have somebody be accountable
for you Don who I work with and I train
with he makes me take a photo of every
meal I eat and text it to him he's like
I want to see what you're putting in
your mouth and every time I'm about to
have something that I shouldn't I think
to myself I got to send this to Don so
he's going to police it so having
somebody help you is also a good thing
but your body is your temple you get one
of these we take better care of our cars
than we do this and then we wonder why
am I depressed because you have to move
this you have to take care of it
everything in the US Secret Service was
about performance this is your your this
is your home it houses your mind it
houses your soul and we treat it like
garbage and we give it garbage when I
run and I work out at night all the
stress I'm like any other human being I
accumulate stress people's anx stuff
coming at me and I need a way to release
it so at night I go run and I let it out
there's been times in my life I could
think of two distinct times I remember
once and I don't remember what it was
but I had such a stressful hard day see
I went to the track to run I remember it
was freezing it was Winter it was
snowing and I was just like I was just
like on the verge of just like just pure
emotion and rage I started
running I was like talking to myself I
was running I'm balling my eyes are
balding balding I look like a crazy
person to the outside world but I ran it
all out and when I was done I was back
to me the the the physical element of
our body is such an important thing and
we treat treat them as two separate
entities and and and they you have to
take care of what houses your soul and
your
mind you strike me as someone that
is pretty Fearless I I I say pretty
because we all I think we all have fear
in us I think fear is a useful natural
emotion but you you're someone that
clearly has built up an in uh a more
productive relationship with fear than
most people when you think back of your
sort of Secret Service experience was
there a day where you were more scared
than another day IE what was the most
scared you were during your time in the
Secret Service do you know I had this
one scenario and I don't think I ever
talked about it I'm in downtown
Manhattan I'm with my colleague and
we're driving to a Secret Service uh
meeting we were going to go arrest
somebody the next day and we were going
to the briefing with this other
department we were going to do our our
pre-arrest briefing about how we're
going to go in tactically so we're
driving to this meeting and as we're
going to this meeting we're in downtown
Manhattan
and uh somebody runs out of a it was a
jewelry store this man runs out of a
jewelry store and these other people are
out there running with them and they're
yelling and they see us and I guess they
realize that we were in a police car
even though was undercover they just
stand out they're like help help get him
get him and the way they were acting you
think he would have shot somebody shot
somebody and we can see as you see them
screaming and yelling help help you see
this other person running away so my
partner flips on the lights we start
driving and we're chasing this person
now I can't see this person I see their
back they have a hoodie on they're
running from the posture of it of it it
looked like a male and it looked like a
guy running so he's running lights on we
get on the thing stop running stop
running he's not listening to anything
he goes he turns the black we're still
chasing him then he turns into a a
parking garage in New York City that
there's these parking garages and they
go all the way underground so he turns
in so we can't go in with the car we're
going in blind we pull up we get
ourselves out and as we're going in
we're clearing people out but you could
also see people running out I guess they
could tell something was wrong people
are leaving and now we're thinking does
this guy have a gun like what's going on
cuz people are responding very
agitatedly to the scenario we go in we
pull everybody out everybody get out get
out so we go to the bottom level of the
parking garage where we believe he's at
lights are it's dark and we go in police
come out police come out he's not
listening we're looking for him
underneath all these cars and then I see
him he's underneath the car and I I go
to my partner I sing to my partner cuz
he's like on the other side I'm like hey
I'm like he's right down he's right
there now we can't see him my partner's
like I'm going to go around so my
partner goes around and he he didn't
listen to me my partner so I blame him a
little bit he went too prematurely
before we kind of figured out what what
he goes to go grab him from behind so
now my partner's out in the open this
guy's out there I see him I don't know
if he has a weapon we have enough to he
ran from us right so these things are
escalating let me see your hands let me
see your hands nothing let me see your
hands put your hands out I can see you I
see you under the car let me see your
hands cuz now I'm worried he's going to
shoot my partner cuz my partner's out in
the open trying to get to him let me see
your hands so then I pull my gun out and
I pointed at him let me see your hands
let me see your hands and I'm thinking
please show your hands because now I'm
in this cross between if this thises guy
have a gun and if he has a gun any
second he's going to kill my partner and
I had a choice where I was like do I do
you shoot because I think he's gonna
shoot my partner because he's not
showing me his hands and he's fidgeting
do I not shoot give him the benefit of
the doubt and then he does shoot my
partner and now I'm responsible for the
death of my partner or if he doesn't
have a gun am I responsible cuz now I
just shot him and he didn't have a gun
and you're doing this this thing in your
head and there's no way to win and it's
happening in
seconds I couldn't see his hands I chose
not to shoot I'm praying
that he doesn't shoot my partner he has
no gun he's not showing his hands and
then I'm like I'm going to shoot you
please show your hands show your hands
and then my partner goes from behind and
then the guy's like fine fine he's like
put your gun away he's screaming he puts
his hands out my partner pulls him up
from the back and we get him then we
come around I'm pissed I'm so
pissed we sit him down we cuff him I
pull his hoodie out 16-year-old
kid I searched his pockets you know what
he did he sold one stole one of those
big gold crosses that is all he did cuz
I pulled out his ID I checked his ID I
was like do you know I almost shot you
for this do you know we chased you down
for this you almost died for this stupid
cross so we call the cops they come that
stayed with me because I almost killed
an innocent person for what for
nothing that was probably very powerful
I was afraid I've been scenarios where
the the death was on my receiving in and
I was okay with that but I wasn't okay
with this because I thought there was a
split second where I was deciding do I
shoot him because he's not following my
instructions I cannot see his hand my
partner's out there he could kill my
partner I don't know if he has a gun I
had all these escalating reasons to
think that and I chose not to shoot what
is your mental health like generally and
throughout your career because people
talk about mental health they talk about
anxiety you know depression low moods
and stuff Have you
ever experienced what people describe as
mental health
disorders I I don't this is terrible I
don't think so I think I'm trying to
think I mean like any human being I go
through moments but I don't let myself
live there I guess I always feel like
I'm the
governor I will say this it is okay to
be depressed it is okay to have anxiety
it is okay to feel bad I think maybe
that's the issue because we're in a
space where oh you're depressed you
there's something wrong with you you
have anxiety whoa I had anxiety every
day when I went to training I always had
anxiety when I put my vest on and I was
protecting the present I would carry my
MP5 which is like
this a weapon that basically like could
go into automatic you could cause
serious damage like that anxiety I'm
like man is today the day those are okay
things to have so I feel like maybe we
should change the narrative and
normalize feeling bad instead of making
people feel like you're sad take this
pill you have have anxiety something's
wrong with that why is that bad why do I
have to be like every ridiculous
commercial a cuz in the US we we we
advertise prescription medication where
I'm smiling all the time and Happy my
barometer for life is not to be happy
the the moments that I've done the most
amazing things in my life I've not been
happy I've been fulfilled I've been like
man I just did that when I woke up when
I would wake up at 3:00 a.m. to go to
the White House to stamp post for 10
hours outside the Oval Office in the
freezing cold in the winter I wasn't
happy I was freezing I was cold but you
know what I was like man how did I get
here was there ever a day when you
thought the president's life was at risk
and you were around him was there ever a
moment where you thought you're every
day but but was there a particular day
where you thought no oh we're screwed or
that he was going to be
attacked was there ever a moment where
you genuinely thought there was a
genuine threat on his life just
wondering yes and no yes in
that like when you would do outdoor
events like certain events where he was
very vulnerable like he's speaking to a
crowd of 10,000
people there's so many things that could
go wrong right so those events like
there was definitely that Threat Level
was heightened um but we had just put
get man the agency was just such a
competent agency and there were so many
layers of security put in things that
you don't you don't see but it's the
snipers it's the counter assault team
it's the air restrictions no planes
flying above ground because we put those
into place it's even rad radiation
detection nuclear there's so many things
we do that you the the average person
has no idea about all the the protocols
we put in place so I can't say the
president per se because I feel like he
got all the bells and whistles but maybe
there were times where it was hard to
protect certain people and that that's
where I felt it was harder when I
protected bar Bush Bush's daughter when
I had her that was hard because I did
not have the resources that you would
have for
President and she wanted to be a young
girl and go out and date and go to clubs
and go to Coachella and do these things
I had to take her to Coachella and I'm
thinking I got to keep her alive and
this you know it's Coachella and how
many people are coal it's like T
thousand hundreds I don't even know at
this point so those scenarios were
usually the most uneasy for me because I
had limited resources and it was a very
different environment and they want to
live their life is there anything that
you can't talk about because sure if you
ask me something I can't answer I'll
tell you but is I'm I'm interested to
know what you're unable to talk about
you can talk about the cars okay what
the way that the cars work in the
security systems yeah the weight
technical mechanical things with the
cars because you have to think of it
this way anything I share here you're
going to have people that follow you
that listen but you're also going to
have Bad actors who listen to these
interviews to gather information CU they
want to carry out an attack I always
think like that so there are certain
things you can't share I can't share
certain things about Air Force One I
can't share certain things about like
how we positioned ourselves like even
though you'll see agents around the
president there's a schematic that we
follow that the average person won't
understand how we move our vehicles how
they're positioned and why uh how we how
we would fight an attacker like there's
scenarios we play and movements that
exist it's like a dance do you have to
sign a form when you leave or before you
start to say that I'll never speak about
certain things do you know initially no
there was no such thing cuz there was
such a level of trust you didn't need it
you didn't need it and then one agent
and I love him he came out and he
started talking about things he
shouldn't have talked about um and as
soon as he did that the ndas came which
is a little sad because up until that
point it was really just everything we
did was based on the honor
System did you ever have any form of
imposter syndrome you know we talked
earlier that when you joined the Secret
Service there was what 98% men or
something crazy it was and so as a woman
in that environment I know that you
underwent a lot of prejudice a lot of
discrimination a lot of comments did
that ever leave you feeling like you
were somewhere you weren't supposed to
be or what you know as they describe it
as imposter syndrome so I hate that word
mhm and I don't live it let it live in
my head and it's like who invented that
word I think there's like these two
researches and I want to say I could be
completely wrong so everybody be kind to
me if I'm making a mistake but I had
looked into it and I can't remember and
I think it was two researchers who
invented it specifically for
women so I don't have imposter syndrome
I earned to where I got I killed myself
to get there so I always felt like oh
wow how did I get here but I'm like I
got here so I never let that live in my
head and take up real estate so one is
my NE my naiveness and my ignorance
allowed me to get to where I was because
I didn't have this narrative I shouldn't
be there by whose
standard that's one the other thing is
I'm not going to dismiss and say that I
did not endure difficult things of
course I did I was a woman yes these
things happened I remember once I was at
a brief I was a brand new we're at this
one briefing it's me and all these guys
and then um there's a boss giving a
briefing to everybody he locked eye
contact with everybody except me he
wouldn't look at me the whole briefing
after every brief and then I ended
having ended up having it for a boss for
a lot of things it's like I wasn't there
he looked at everybody else I knew
intuitively it's like he feels weird
looking at me cuz I'm a woman like okay
I was like I still deserve to be here
in those environments if someone's not
if you feel like your manager or your
your boss or your or the CEO or even
like a colleague isn't showing you
respect and I I I've read your story so
I know that this happened multiple times
in your life whether there' be someone
around you that wasn't showing you the
respect you deserve um and I have a lot
of people that come up to me and they
say I'm struggling because my boss is
not showing me respect or my colleague
this colleague isn't listening to me or
all these kinds of things
where where does your mind default to
when I say that like where do you go to
in your mind what's your like action a
so with the last one you just said my my
colleagues don't listen to me I would
come back and I would say give me an
example of where they don't listen to
you right so I would say to you when you
do speak do you look at people when you
speak do you project your voice so it's
called paralinguistics everyone's so
focused on what they say like reading my
notes or reading my agenda they don't
think about the tone pitch of the voice
how are you deling this are you
projecting your voice or do you do you
talk like this when you speak I have a
question I just want to share
something people going to like glaze
over I have a question or or even just
the tone how you end hi am heavie hi
heavie feels different mhm those are
simple things you can do to make sure
people hear you the other thing
is I say this a lot when I speak to
companies cuz communicate is a big thing
don't just talk to talk there's this
thing out there and especially with
women where it's like make sure they
hear you make sure your voice is heard
at the table I'm fine with that do you
have something beneficial to say or
value to say because if you don't don't
say anything half the meetings I go to I
don't speak because I maybe I have
nothing to say it's so interesting I am
from being in many boardrooms for many
many years probably 15 years being in
marketing boardrooms not 15 years about
10 years is being in marketing
boardrooms with CEOs with my team with
lots of different people lots of
different teams I've had thousands and
thousands of meetings I eventually
observe something in myself which is a
bit of a Prejudice that I have which is
the minute someone
speaks based on their contribution score
which is like a credit score based on
all of the contributions you made in the
past in those first couple of seconds if
their previous contributions were all
valuable everyone in the room would stop
and look and lean in
but if they if they developed a low
contribution score because they'
continually talked for the sake of
talking i. they just like I'll give you
an example um in my New York office back
in the day there was this one one guy
who we'd be in a brainstorm trying to
solve a problem and he would start
speaking and you you you'd see by the
way he started speaking that had hadn't
actually thought through what he was
going to say and he' go what about um if
we put a I don't know like a popup and
uh like maybe we'll do
some Tik toks uh and so honestly what I
then observed from that individual is
every time they open their mouth people
would instantly basically like dismiss
the idea because they had such a low
contribution score and like we all have
a contribution score you have one I have
one based on the last 10 years of when
we've opened our mouth how valuable it
was to the people around us like that
individual whenever he spoke EV I would
see the person sat next to him who I
won't name almost like loky roll their
eyes in the first five seconds and shut
it down before he'd even got it out and
then there was this other guy called in
my UK office called Paul never spoke
like never really said anything super
mature super experienced guy the minute
he said anything because every time he
opened his mouth it was important and
valuable and considered everyone went he
could interrupt anyone the instant
silence everyone stares over at this guy
because when he contributed we all knew
that he had something valuable to add
and I so I would say to my team I said
this to this team that we're here with
us in New York like just make sure you
project your contributions goore that I
think that's such a brilliant way to say
it yes you're prob yes it's like it's
your score because people keep tabs on
you yeah they know Stephen's going to
say something he doesn't always speak
but if he's going to say something every
time he drops something he drops
something of value where people think
like I have to talk because everyone
tells me I have to talk make my voice
heard no shut up and if if you're silent
then you're not of value that's what
people think they think you didn't add
anything right or you didn't take
anything away either yes I will tell you
this too Stephen when I go to meetings
there sometimes I go to meetings and if
I'm the dumbest person in the room I'm
the happiest person MH that's the one
time where I'm happy because I'm
thinking wow look at all these smart
people around me and I get to be part of
this I get to listen I love to sit back
and listen there's times I just had a
meeting with like my scripted agent
Sylvie with my manager about some TV
project and I knew enough to know to say
I they're like hey eie this and this and
I said you know what this is space I
don't know I'm going to follow your lead
fill me in I'm taking a seat back you
guys do the talking I'm going to let you
in on a little secret what is in the
Diary of a CEO Cup this cup that sits in
front of me when I interview these
people sometimes for 3 hours and
sometimes three people a day and the
answer is this perfect T I invested in
the company on Dragon's Den and since
then they've gone from an idea to the
fastest growing energy drink in the UK
it is a mat energy drink and it is
absolutely delicious but that's not why
I choose to drink it on this podcast the
reason I choose to drink it is because
it gives me what I call all day energy I
don't get the same crashes that I used
to get with other energy drinks if
you're in the middle of a conversation
or you're in the middle of a talk on
stage or in the boardroom the last thing
you want to do is have a crash you don't
want Jitters and you need focus and that
is why they now sponsor this podcast not
only is it delicious but it gives me a
significant competitive Advantage if you
haven't tried it go down to a Tesco go
to a waitrose or go online and use the
code diary 10 at checkout and you'll get
10% off and when you do try it let me
know how you get on you're someone who
has a default to taking responsibility
you know like the op the opposite I
guess of taking responsibility is
becoming a victim which we talked a
little bit about before we started
recording but people don't like taking
responsibility it it it almost is like
holding a mirror up to yourself it's
much easier to go through life blaming
the world blaming the government blaming
circumstance luck parents the guy that
did it to me my ex-boyfriend my
ex-husband it's a much easier way it's a
much more comfortable way to exist
within your mind for most for most
people for a lot of people I amum I sat
with a guy called M that many years ago
and he the first time he came on my
podcast and he told me that when he
writes a book he gets 500 people at
random members of the public to go into
a Google doc and kind of read through it
and he goes for some reason when people
got to the section about personal
responsibility about 10% of people just
click off
because they don't want to read that
because nothing's my fault they don't
want someone to tell them that
they can change their life and I've
always found that really bizarre like
people people don't want to know that
they some people don't want to know that
wherever they are now and where they
want to be will largely be based in most
circumstances not all be based on what
they do now and tomorrow and the day
after there's something about
victimhood which both alleviates
um blame from
ourselves and makes us
feel justified in our
misery do you know I but some people
want to live there it becomes their
identity so I am
this I am how I am today because of this
thing that happened to me a long time
ago I remember working with this woman
there was a window during Co when people
were writing to me and I was like
it's quiet let me do consultations and I
did consultation mentors and I had this
one woman come to me and I would get
people like what you're talking about
every now and then usually when most
people came to me though they knew what
they were getting but I would have
people come to me that just wanted me to
validate that somebody else did this to
you or you're okay to feel this way
there one woman came to me she was a
therapist and she came to me and she
told me about some hardship she had when
she was young I think what what she had
was she grew up with no money was very
traumatic she had to take care of her
brother and she there was a term for it
I forgot it was a clinical term and
because of that trauma today she has all
these issues and so she's like I have a
hard time talking FR of people I have
anxiety and she was telling me this
stuff I said why don't we leave what
happened to you here here let's leave it
there I said and let's look at what
we're doing because you're telling me
eie I want to perform in life but it's
like you've just bought yourself this
brand new Porsche and you're like this
thing won't go past 50 or 60 why
because I'm like cuz you have this big
ass U-Haul attached to it and it can't
so why don't we leave this back there
and we'll move forward would you believe
Stephen she lost her mind she's like how
dare you how dare you dismiss what I've
been through how dare you read the room
I will never forget
her and the thing was it was so part of
who she was today it was her it defined
her so much she didn't want to leave it
behind she just wanted to talk about it
more and so sometimes people why doesn't
she want to leave it behind do you think
because it's her identity it's who she
is it's like people who have been
through something um an experience I
will give you another example September
11th so I was in the World Trade Center
on September 11th I survived I was
almost killed I lost colleagues and
friends but I was
also around other people who experienced
what I experienced and
different different people behave
differently and there were some people
that would reach out to me remember this
one guy he was a medic
and he saw what I saw he experienced
what I experienced and he just couldn't
recover and he would call me up he's
like eie I'm struggling I'm struggling
and I tell him I'm like I think his name
was Jerry I'm like Jerry I'm like leave
it it's done we're here it's like where
we go and he couldn't and all he did was
talk about it and the other thing he did
is he went to therapy a lot of it and I
was like dude I was like I don't think
you should be going therapy about this
stop talking about
it I was like like you're reliving it
every time like therapy is supposed to
like it's a hypocritic oath Do no harm
like therapy is supposed to help you
move forward but if I was like if I went
to therapy every week and I talked about
911 I'd be a mess I was like leave it
let it be where it is in the past and
like what do you do with what we
experienced and how do we move forward
and how do we help other
people and I like that was a scenario
where I was like if you keep reliving
this trauma like you become it and it
was him it was him he left being a medic
he Lo his marriage he got a divorce like
his whole life just fell apart but do
you know he wanted to stay there he
didn't want to leave it it was what it
was it defined who he was I met another
dude I shouldn't say dude but I met
another man who I knew he was an iron
worker nice guy he does a lot of stuff
around 9/11 but I remember once I
interviewed him for a news thing he
didn't know anything about me this was
strictly newed as a journalist after I
left the Secret Service and it was a 911
piece we were doing I didn't say
anything cuz of course it's not about me
it's about him I remember putting his
mics on and doing stuff and getting
ready to do my video thing with him he
had like 911 tattoos all over his
arms and like he had a 911 room he's
like let me show you my room and again I
said nothing I remember thinking I'm
like I like I can't I would never tattoo
the towers on my arms I was like I I
can't I'm like what mental mindset are
you going to be in and he had a room
with all his 911 stuff I was like I
don't I have a Valor W it's not it's
under my bed I my dad had took it he
hung it then when he passed away I took
it and I put it I put it away again it's
under my bed I think that these things
like there are certain types of people
Stephen that they want to be tied to
this it's their story and when they meet
you they're going to tell you about it
oh do you know I would have been through
I'm recovering from this I'm surviving
for this you come across those folks
because that's their identity it's
become who they are and they don't know
how to let it go and it's okay but
that's for them it's not for me what is
the what is the harm then of not letting
go of our trauma and embodying it and
allowing it to become our identity like
what does it stop us from doing because
I'm not a 9911 Survivor I'm
heavy that's something I experienced one
day in my life and you're going to tell
me that one day finds who I am for the
rest of my
life [__] no if it does what's the harm
who's every going to become I'm going to
be I'm going to be a mess I'm going to
be afraid to go in a high-rise building
I'm going to be afraid to get onto a
plane 3 weeks after 9/11 I got on a
plane I was like oh no no no no this is
not kill fear fear while it's still
small this is not going to become a
monster I got my ass on a
plane I was like I I can't na I can't
control everything in my life but I can
navigate the out come of my life to some
degree not all I'm not going to be at
the mercy of the
world I I can take ownership to some
degree Stephen but I have to choose to
want it not everybody wants it but it's
also I have to you and I or whoever has
to have enough intelligence to see that
when someone is like that just leave
them they don't want you to fix their
problems they want to be there let them
be there however if it's someone you're
looking to hire or date or hang out with
now you decide is this someone I want to
be around because it is not good for me
those are two different
things I want to come back to this 911
thing but I it reminded me of a
conversation I had with someone recently
where they were telling me about all the
problems in their life and problems they
were having with a particular job that
they have and I remember asking them I
was like did you you chose that job
right and you can leave and they were so
offended by the idea that they had a
choice like and they they eventually
they admitted to me that they could
leave and they would be fine because
they have enough money and that they
interviewed for that job and went for it
and they also could leave but they they
weren't interested in Choice like I
remember saying to like I've never this
is a good friend of mine I remember
saying to them like why don't you want
power in this situation like why don't
you want
to be empowered you you're like I could
observe in them that they wanted to be
disempowered they wanted to be powerless
they wanted to be a victim of
circumstance they they didn't want to
have a conversation about choices and
the decisions they could make they were
not interested and I Jesus Christ like
what a way to live what a way to live to
not want to you know because objectively
bad things happen to people you know
traumas they go through things which
were nothing of their doing they weren't
to
blame but it doesn't mean right that we
can't do something about it there's a
very two different things like but you
have to want it some people don't so I
think what you'll do is you'll be able
to people come to you in the say Stephen
I need help or this and that but you'll
be able to see who genuinely really
wants to move forward who just wants to
just tell you about it how do you how
would you be able to identify the
difference so people who are they call
it's called being identity and I Ed this
word before but more in a clinic not in
a clinical but more in the the way that
I've learned it through through training
and my the research I also have a
masters forensic Masters in forensic
psychology when someone is identity um
they use repeated you'll hear them say i
i i i a lot you can even see this in an
email um people who identity tend to be
highly depressed have a lot of anxiety
they're very self-focused when they're
very emotional based so you can spot
these individuals now look we all visit
identity land from time to time like I
may go through
something difficult and have a moment in
this identity space but then I'm like
okay I have to recover but some people
stay in this space it's like their
predominant disposition so repeated use
of I this I that I feel I want I went
through that's one red flag the other
thing is they very emotional uh you'll
see they're linked there's links to
depression they're typically depressed
but they stay in the space the other
thing is people like this who complain a
lot do you know that when you relive a
trauma or you complain or you have drama
like you get those you get those
cortisol hits you get also adrenal hit
adrenaline hits you you get F3 it's your
fight flight freezer response we we Peak
and some people get addicted to that
Peak I'm addicted to the trauma I'm
addicted to feeling that it's like the
last week I was racing a car I was at
Porsche and I was racing cars for fun
and uh when you're in the car you're in
the present right I'm like sh look
trying not to hit the cones doing
whatever I'm there I'm in the moment but
like my adrenaline's going up I'm
peeking I've got my f3s on fire and I'm
but I'm focused it feels I feel
alive so for some people when they get
into this state when they relive this
stuff and they have these spikes or you
see them very high conflict driven or
high drama driven they get these spikes
and it's when they feel in the moment
they feel alive and that you become
addicted to it it also becomes a habit I
was thinking then about the this idea of
identity and what what identity also
sometimes seems to give people is it
gives them a community and it makes
gives them a sense of belonging and it
gives them purpose which we're all
searching for like if I'm a insert
trauma then I instantly have a community
of people that you know will make me
feel like I belong and then that is
something I don't want to give up if I
give up my trauma I end up giving up my
sense of purpose um my my community who
I belong to the way the world
understands
me and uh and that's I guess another
reason why it can be so sticky like our
traumas can be so sticky because we we
we build our whole like our social
circle around them we go to events about
it we we're in group little social media
groups about it but I think today trauma
has become like a badge of honor now in
fact you hear people talking and it's
like a competition about who has more
trauma that's is it not that who has I
have more trauma than you no I've had it
harder than you like it's a comp a
competition of who's had it the hardest
and it's it's become like this this
thing now to that we put on a
pedestal I think it's just the new way
to draw attention to our eles and to
make ourselves relevant it's like ego
and Status it is ego it is status and
it's it's interesting the sense of
belonging in group out group that's a
whole other psychological thing if I'm
in a group then I feel like it belong
somewhere it's like how G I'm taking it
back to Crime gangs or why people join
terrorist organizations they join it
because they want to be part of
something it's not cuz they're bad
people I want to feel like I'm part of a
group and so this makes me feel
relevant which is fine but to to agree
you also have to have your
your sovereignty as a person we want to
be part of something cuz we don't want
to be out there and alone out there but
you don't have to be alone out there but
we hitch ourselves to these narratives
and now my identity is I'm a Survivor of
this I am someone who's experienced this
it's like no those are things that
happen to me but they are not who I am
I'm an evolving thing I called my book
becoming bulletproof cuz I am always
becoming I'm becoming more I'm evolving
we don't
stop I I don't want to stop I'm never
going to get to a point where I know
everything every day I learn something
what was the most interesting day of
your career when I say interesting the
day that you think about and go Jesus
that was like awesome or that was from a
movie so I have I can give you a story
which I don't think I've shared so a
because I didn't look like an agent I
would get pulled in for a lot of
undercover stuff which I loved it was
fun scary but because I never got pegged
for an agent like I always felt super
safe so I did this one thing where it
was another undercover case where they
came to me and we were working with NYPD
it wasn't my case but they wanted me
there was this organized crime ring I
think they were
Albanian and they were
selling passports original passports and
bth certificates to
terrorists this is and so they're
selling selling it to them to help them
come into the US and to other other
people who are Bad actors so we they the
agencies get wind of this they want to
get this these these guys this guy
specifically with this organized crime
ring they're trying to figure out how to
get in because they were so good at what
they did like you couldn't get them so
they wanted me to go in undercover and
pretend to be someone who needed
paperwork so they're trying to figure
out how do we do it so the the idea we
came up with was I would be someone who
had been sex trafficked from an Eastern
block country cuz I I I can pass for
it so um I started talking on the phone
I was introduced him through another
undercover and talking to him on the
phone and I had to develop an Eastern
black accent I need my papers they
brought me here from you know my country
uh because when they sex traffic people
in the first thing they do when they
lure you in is they'll take your
paperwork from you and they and you
can't even get a cell phone here in the
US without paperwork so they take your
stuff and then they put you either to do
sex traffic you know sex work or work in
strip clubs or a both um until you pay
off your debt for them bringing to
America so I pretended to be one of
those so I you know under that premise I
have no paperwork so I can't get an
apartment I can't get anything I'm at
the mercy of these traffickers which
until I pay my my dues which you never
do by the way they keep you locked in
and then they make them afraid and they
tell them if if you say anything they're
going to deport you back which actually
is not true however so I take on this
role I start talking to this guy I need
papers I please they take my papers um H
much for new papers how did you line
this accent did you just go I studied
acting and then plus my parents are
immigrants I grew up in New York and
queens so I just picked them up but I
practice it and uh I had to be good
because if you're not good you get a
bullet to the head when you meet this
guy so you have to live in reality uh
because my life is also on the line and
so I have these phone calls with him he
agrees okay I'll meet with you so my
first meeting is passport photos I had
to go get passport photos I go meet him
and I remember when I met him at his I
think he did construction was the
outside uh thing he did we meet him I'm
me I'm in like dress clothes I'm
dressing like very as a very young woman
but I also had to put on sneakers cuz
I'm like hey if this guy has to do
something I need to be able to run so I
meet him I bring my my passport photos I
go to this location that's a front hi
I'm here to see I don't remember the
guy's name they're like oh no he's not
here you'll have to wait for him so they
play with me for a little while you know
everyone's watching me from the outside
but I have no wire on and we debated
whether I should have a wire or not or a
gun and I chose to take nothing so I'm
I'm I've got nothing with me which makes
me more vulnerable but my concern was if
they put me through a metal detector or
they checked me that would be worse cuz
now I'm in their home and like they'll
just off me right off the bat so I'm
sitting there and I'm waiting he finally
comes then he tries to lure me into his
car and uh I had been briefed whatever
you do you don't get into a car with
this guy uh so I don't get in the car
and I'm like no no no no I don't get
into car he's like no we need to talk
private now I have eyes on me and I want
to make sure the agents and everybody
can see me so there's this back and
forth where I'm like I please I fre I
don't want to go into the car his has
passport phos I give him I think it was
5gs I gave him an envelope of 5 grand
here's the five grand he's like okay
come back in like 2 weeks and he's like
maybe you'll get in my car so I come
back like 2 weeks later same story I
meet him I get my passports he gave me a
Polish passport I won't forget it was a
a real authentic polish passport and and
a certificate birth certificate and all
that then I'm like the deal was though I
needed more transactions with this guy
cuz the more you get the longer you can
put them away but he was so good we
couldn't get anything that we knew he
had done so I'm like hey I have more
friends can I send you more girl girls
I'll bring you more girls so oh yeah so
then I start bringing him more girls who
are these girls other Undercovers other
undercover female agents uh and cops we
had NYPD play and so we go in and we're
doing this buying and selling
transactions transactions till we got
enough to get the US attorney to say yes
we got him and then they went in and
they um they took them down that was
pretty interesting were you scared at
any point I was not because I always
felt safe in that nobody Stephen ever
thought I was a cop nobody ever thought
I was an agent I didn't look like one I
didn't speak like one so I would I felt
very safe on that point because you
don't look like an agent I understand
how that's useful for the for the going
under cover but it it's it's got to lead
people to underestimate you in your
professional career mhm yes and a lot of
people I've spoken to I was speaking at
a uh a women's leadership conference
about a week ago in London and lots of
the questions from the audience were
about that subject about being
underestimated and how to deal with that
it was a Dei conference so diversity
Equity inclusion conference lots of
people that are black lots of people
that are women lots of people that are
from different sort of minority groups
and the com the question came up about
like being underestimated because of
your skin color because of your gender
because of something else how do you
deal with that
and um it's something that I thought a
lot about when I started in business at
18 years old as a university Dropout I'm
going into rooms and I'm dealing with
men that are all in suits and they're
triple my age I'm 18 I know they're
looking at me with my Afro my fake tie
like my little cheap tie thinking who
the [__] is this guy like but have you
have you seen your that underestimation
of you as a disadvantage or an
advantage it's how you choose to view it
I remember once I was in Africa where
was I batwan
where I was born you were born in
batswana yeah
cabaron yeah I spent a whole month I've
been to Africa a lot I loved batswana I
remember I had to close the windows cuz
at the hotel cuz they said the monkeys
come in I was like monkeys I thought it
was cool though I was like no I'll leave
them open they're like no no you don't
want the monkeys coming in your room so
I spent a lot of time with batswana and
I was there
with um I I did a trip where I went from
batswana to Tanzania and I was with
Barbara excuse me Laura Bush the
daughter President Bush's daughter she
was doing some um some work there
nonprofit work and when I was her it's
called an assistant detail leader so I
was kind of like her main person and
then I had a team under me so I have my
team and I'm I'm I'm holding a briefing
I'm in charge and we're in the hotel
room we're here there to meet before our
our our trip starts so they sent me
Agents from different parts of the world
they come in and the first agent that
walked in I was myself in the room first
agent walked in he's like hey oh hey hi
how are you I'm like oh good how are you
he said are you with the staff or you an
intern because if the staff's office is
down the hall if you want to go to the
staff's office I'll show you where it
is you know so I don't I don't show it
so I keep my face and I said no I'm
actually agent pomus I'm I'm the one
who's holding the briefing hi good to
meet you meaning I'm I'm your supervisor
for this trip and he's like oh okay hi
nice to meet you now I could sit there
and be pissed about this or I can just
leave
it sometimes like Stephen like who
cares like who cares I can't care so
much there's some things you need to
care about and some things you don't and
as you were talking about you know who
we are when I went to um poly School
what's poly school I'm sorry polygraph
school it's where I went to the
Department of Defense to be trained to
be an interrogator it was a really
selective School and it was like the
who's who of agencies were there and um
we were all in the classroom and I
remember I was walking with a colleague
of mine we'll call him k um Kay and I
are walking and we're walking back to
our hotel it's just he and I and he was
quiet I'm like K what's wrong and he's
like he's like you know what he's like I
don't know he's like it's just like the
group of people and he was an agent he
was a secret service agent I was like
he's like did you notice like did you
take toll of the room I'm like what
about the room he said you know I'm the
only black guy in the room and I was
just like huh and I paused and we had
been there like maybe a couple of weeks
already and I'm like I stopped I said I
had to do the mental like assessment I
was like yeah K you're right you are and
he looked at he's like you're the only
female agent in the room too and I was
like am I and I
stopped and did a mental assessment I
was like yeah you're
right and it made me sad in that moment
cuz cuz I'm thinking like look what K's
thinking about and I hadn't even thought
about it and what what ended up
happening is like I I would invite him
out I'm like hey come out we're going
with the guys he's like but they don't
invite me I'm like dude you don't need a
special invite they don't invite me
either we just go and because he built
this narrative in his head cuz he
thought he thought cuz he was different
or I was different we weren't wanted
like makes you show up different doesn't
it you show up different and I and he
was such a great guy such a competent
guy and I would and I would actually sit
there I'm like K I'm like nobody's
thinking like that and there was a group
of guys that were with us that came that
were Secret Service guys and I was like
I am telling you these guys are not
thinking about you're black I'm a woman
like I don't think they give a [__] and
he's like I don't know he's like I don't
want to just show up I'm like I do I
asked him every day what are we having
for dinner I don't want to eat alone and
I would have to go knock on his door and
I remember it came to a point he's like
I want them to invite me and I had to go
to the guys I'm like can you guys do me
solid can you invite K cuz he thinks I'm
inviting him and I guess it's not enough
to have the woman invite you I was like
can you invite him cuz he feels like you
guys don't want him and they looked at
me like what I was like just go knock on
his door tell him we're having dinner
tonight but he had set himself up
mentally in such a space and he lived
there and I was like man I can't live
here it's interesting because it begs
the question sometimes what's doing more
harm the Discrimination or the belief
that you're being discriminated ated
against sometimes it's you know I'm
black you're a woman um I I often wanted
this in my early CR you know I had a
really adverse reaction one day when I
saw this grant that they did I was 18 19
years old had no money and I saw that
they were doing this grant for young
black entrepreneurs and there was
something about it which like just irked
me I don't know why I've never really
understood why but I wanted to be
considered on my merits not my skin
color so when I saw that they were
giving out these grants to young black
kids you would think I'd go amazing give
me the but in my head I was like I hate
that I hate that because it's a reminder
that it's like it's like them thinking
and I think this is a super complex
thing right for me it was like they
think I'm not good enough so they have
to give me a foot up I know it's deeper
and it's more systemic but I've always
tried to stay away from that especially
when I learned about labeling Theory
which you see play out in kids in school
when they get like an F on an exam the
implicit sort of message to themselves
is that like I am an f and when you when
you overlay that with this the thing I
was reading about called stereotype
threat where they like remind a woman
before a math exam they ask her to put
her like gender on the math exam and
then she performs worse or they remind a
black person about their Race by asking
them to tick a box with their race and
then those people perform worse on the
exam because we're reminded of our
identity and we all of the identity
stuff that you talked about we then
perform worse I've always tried to make
sure that I don't ever believe that my
race is a is a reason not to show up and
give everything I am in every situation
and I I can see how for some people
anything that someone might discriminate
you for can also cause harm if you start
to believe it you start to embody it you
start to look for it yes and you let it
become real in your mind this is not to
say that objectively discrimination and
Prejudice isn't real I'm I've always
been well aware that it's real but as
you said earlier I'm also of the mind
that it's not my problem in that moment
to try and change someone yes I and I
get what you're saying label labeling
the theory we use it in criminal justice
too when you label somebody a criminal
or an offender and you you put that
label on them they are more likely to
reoffend again cuz you're just reminding
me that I'm just a bad person so if
that's what I am that's what I'm going
to think like and I will tell you every
time somebody asks me like what was it
like being a female special agent I
always get like a teeny tiny Pang and I
want to be like how many how many dudes
do you sit in this chair and ask them I
was it like being in an being an agent
why do I get that I was an agent I
earned it I earned it like everybody I I
and I also had to perform like everybody
and it's and it yes it implies like and
you hear it sometimes or sometimes like
maybe you'll read like I'll see an
interview of mine and you'll see token
higher female you know how however they
word it like oh she you could tell she
was a female higher and you just want to
be like I'm not going to give the finger
because we're being PG here even though
we've cursed a few times but I just want
to flip the bird it's like dude like you
don't know what I went through to be
that don't give me a hand handout I want
an opportunity fine but I'm going to own
it and even in training they had you
know and I have talked about this before
in training like I found out they had
male standards and female standards for
performance oh yeah military too there's
different schools on this so I according
to this I don't have to run as fast as a
guy according to to these standards
according to these standards I don't
have to do as many pull-ups or push-ups
I didn't know this when I got hired
I find out later because some agent in
training made sure that I knew hey just
so you know uh you got special treatment
to get here and I'm thinking what are
you talking about they're like well the
standards that we have to meet and that
you have to meet are not the same
clearly I'm not happy about this I find
out I get the mail standards and I'm
like I felt horrible I remember when
they told me this I went to my room that
night and I felt horrible about it and
I'm
thinking there's a part of me that's
like [__] these guys how dare you talk
to me like that I have just as much a
right to be here as you and then there's
other part of me that's like well
they're right so I was like well I was
like I'm going to have to perform like
they do and so I just started Stephen
like working out like a maniac and I was
like I don't want to hear anything from
anybody and I worked out and I worked
out and I worked out morning and night
so I was like I'm going to be at their
level I'm going to score what they score
but I will also tell you cuz there were
a couple of girls in my class like maybe
another one or two I can't
remember they didn't care they were fine
with the female
standards so I've seen both I've seen
both I'm not judging them I chose my own
path but I've also seen it where I've
seen and I can I'm just speaking from
the female standard standard where a
woman was okay who is an agent not being
able to do a pull-up and I'm thinking
like that's no good
either it's complex isn't it because
it's when we have these conversations it
always sounds like we're saying that
prejudice and discrimination aren't very
real things but what we're saying is
we're like not going to make them our
problem it's not my identity yeah it's
your problem if that's part of you
that's you know and I'm not going to
commit my very limited energy to fixing
everybody I meet it's like Jesus Christ
I've got enough stuff to be thinking
about then fixing everybody and
correcting everybody which some people
fall into the Trap of that they go
around their Liv trying to fix the world
and you can't get much done how Tire how
tiring is that how exhausting is that
and how mentally draining and how even
just emotionally like what does that do
to your soul that you're trying to fix
who are you fighting I guess that's who
who are you
fighting I'm not going to maybe if
you're Sovereign and here and you know
you show I feel like you show people I'm
not I know those things exist I know my
parents were immigrants my dad like he
would always pick for Middle Eastern and
he had a even though he was Greek and he
had a really heavy accent I saw how
people treated him even as a man but
like seeing him like Middle Eastern dark
tone tone heavy accent like my brother
and I we'd go through like security at
the airport he's like we always knew he
was going to get pulled he's like who's
going you or me and it would hurt my
heart to see how he was
treated but you can't sit and fight
everybody like I I'm
not the space you take up in the world
is just and your time here man it's just
so
finite fight who you need to fight if
you have to fight but like you have a
choice and I'm just too busy like you I
have things to do and I can't sit and
waste my time on every buffoon that
comes my way that's sinking and seeing
me through a certain Les lens not my
problem sometimes it is my problem and
if it's my performance so like with the
scenario I gave you before I get that I
get what they were saying fair enough
I'm not qualifying at the standards you
are I'm going to do it but I don't want
to hear [__] from anybody once I do it
but even then Stephen I still heard [__]
and that's when know you're the problem
I'm not the problem at some point you
have to be able to like write it off
it's interesting because the you talked
you did a little gesture then which was
kind of it looked like you were making a
little bubble around yourself and that
bubble is in the way that I perceived it
was like I'm going to just protect this
space here because you thinking about
the Border agent that like pulls you
into the back room for four hours which
happens to me quite a lot for a variety
of different reasons I was actually an
article about it like a couple of weeks
couple of months back that I'd been
pulled into this like back room that he
threw airport over and over and over and
over again
in the moments when I fight that
situation I do so much harm to my own
energy I'm like letting resentment
in and it's so tempting because it
objectively probably is Prejudice for
some kind of like Injustice but I have
to be conscious as you always talk about
like of that energy exchange it's it's
almost impossible to
like do a one-way transfer of energy
it's always like a two-way transfer I
think you can like I feel like it's your
mental armor like bubble MH like you can
Bubble Up yourself you can look at
somebody and be like all right I know
what I got I don't have time cuz I'm
busy what do you need to ask me are we
done okay because I do agree with you
sometimes if you fight it their
perception is going to be and I'm
telling you because I'm former law
enforcement they're thinking oh why is
he escalating oh why is he this why does
he have a problem but from your
standpoint sure are they picking you for
a specific reason chances are if it
keeps happening to you over and over
again oh yeah there's something there
and there is something Sy there we're
not I'm not dismissing that those things
don't exist but it's also like how much
energy are you going to put in and I
guess is the energy you're putting in
worth the outcome that's
all becoming bulletproof life lessons
from a secret service agent the quote on
the front from Roger ton at the Daily
Mail is part Memoir part hugely
entertaining self-help manual for these
tough times protect yourself read people
influence situations and live fiercely
become Bulletproof the paperback edition
of this book is now available everywhere
and I think uh anybody that's listened
to this conversation should have enough
evidence as to why they need to read
this book because it's a really really
accessible important book that's full of
incredible actionable invite advice that
we can translate to the boardroom to our
relationships to our lives more broadly
to enable us to become who we want to
become we have a closing tradition on
this podcast where the last guest leaves
a question for the next guest not
knowing who they're going to be leaving
it for and the question that has been
left for you inside the Diary of a CEO
is What about your body Health have you
struggled with the most and what did you
do to fix it or improve it after I gave
birth because it was such a my body went
through so much
trauma I had to leave it alone and let
it heal oh you know what else I did when
I was pregnant because I worked out my
whole life the entire time I was
pregnant I didn't work out so I guess
listen to your body
and give it what it needs it'll tell
you Evie thank you so much you're a huge
inspiration for so many people for so
many reasons that I think i' I'd be here
all day if I went through the entire
list you're an inspiration because of
your vulnerability because of the way
that you articulate wisdom in such
accessible relatable ways to people and
really you know you said you don't
really like the word but unfortunately
you are a role model to many people for
many many reasons because your life and
your career are evidence to all of us
that we can climb to the top of the
mountain regardless of all of the
hurdles and obstacles that are in our
way and much of that comes down to the
way that we perceive those obstacles and
hurdles and and also from speaking to I
realize that many of those obstacles and
hurdles that are in our way as we
journey up that mountain have been
placed there ourselves by ourselves and
I think that is an incredibly liberating
thing your book is a must read for all
people for both men and women that are
trying to climb their own personal or
professional mountain and become more as
you said at the start of this
conversation so thank you so much for
your wisdom thank you for all the work
you're doing and thank you on behalf of
all the people you've helped thank you
Stephen how many of you started thinking
about your long-term Health when you hit
30 for me this was a wakeup moment of me
thinking to myself okay I probably need
to start paying a little bit more
attention now I already felt a change in
myself when I hit 30 with things like my
metabolism my energy levels so this year
is no different Zoe which is a company
I've invested in but also a company that
are a sponsor of this podcast helps me
to make smarter food choices all based
on their world leading science and my
own test results if I'm ordering food I
know how to make my takeaway so much
smarter by adding things like a side of
vegetables to eat first or choosing the
option with the most fiber Zoe helps me
to make that choice it guides me and
coaches me it's my personalized
nutrition coach that I have on me 24/7
and to help you start your Zoe journey
and start making smarter food choices
I'm giving you guys 10% off when you
join Zoe now all you've got to do is use
code ce10 at the checkout when you sign
up enjoy and let me know how you get on
[Music]
a